.TH MKTAP "1" "July 2001" "" ""
.SH NAME
mktap \- create twisted.servers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mktap
[\fIoptions\fR] \fIapptype\fR [\fIapplication_option\fR]...
.PP
.B mktap
\fIapptype\fR --help
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \fB\--help\fR prints out a usage message to standard output.
.TP
\fB\--debug\fR, \fB\-d\fR
Show debug information for plugin loading.
.TP
\fB\--progress\fR, \fB\-p\fR
Show progress information for plugin loading.
.TP
\fB\--encrypted\fR, \fB\-e\fR
Encrypt file before writing (will make the extension of the resultant file begin with 'e').
.TP
\fB\--uid\fR, \fB\-u\fR \fI<uid>\fR
Application belongs to this uid, and should run with its permissions.
.TP
\fB\--gid\fR, \fB\-d\fR \fI<gid>\fR
Application belongs to this gid, and should run with its permissions.
.TP
\fB\--append\fR, \fB\-a\fR \fI<file>\fR
Append given servers to given file, instead of creating a new one.
File should be be a tap file.
.TP
\fB\--appname\fR, \fB\-n\fR \fI<name>\fR
Use the specified name as the process name when the application is run with
\fItwistd(1)\fR.  This option also causes some initialization code to be
duplicated when \fItwistd(1)\fR is run.
.TP
\fB\--type\fR, \fB\-t\fR \fI<type>\fR
Specify the output file type. Available types are:
.IP
pickle - (default) Output as a python pickle file.
.br
source - Output as a .tas (AOT Python source) file.
.P
\fIapptype\fR
Can be 'web', 'portforward', 'toc', 'coil', 'words', \
'manhole', 'im', 'news', 'socks', 'telnet', 'parent', 'sibling', \
'ftp', and 'mail'. Each of those support different options.
.PP
.SH \fBportforward\fR options
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\--host\fR \fI<host>\fR
Proxy connections to \fI<host>\fR
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\--dest_port\fR \fI<port>\fR
Proxy connections to \fI<port>\fR on remote host.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\--port\fR \fI<port>\fR
Listen locally on \fI<port>\fR
.PP
.SH \fBweb\fR options
.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\--user\fR
Makes a server with ~/public_html and
~/.twistd-web-pb support for users.
.TP
\fB\--personal\fR
Instead of generating a webserver, generate a
ResourcePublisher which listens on ~/.twistd-web-pb
.TP
\fB\--path\fR \fI<path>\fR
<path> is either a specific file or a directory to be
set as the root of the web server. Use this if you
have a directory full of HTML, cgi, php3, epy, or rpy files or
any other files that you want to be served up raw.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\--port\fR \fI<port>\fR
<port> is a number representing which port you want to
start the server on.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\--mime_type\fR \fI<mimetype>\fR
<mimetype> is the default MIME type to use for
files in a --path web server when none can be determined
for a particular extension. The default is 'text/html'.
.TP
\fB\--allow_ignore_ext\fR
Specify whether or not a request for 'foo' should return 'foo.ext'.
Default is off.
.TP
\fB\--ignore-ext\fR \fI.<extension>\fR
Specify that a request for 'foo' should return 'foo.\fI<extension>\fR'.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\--telnet\fR \fI<port>\fR
Run a telnet server on <port>, for additional
configuration later.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\--index\fR \fI<name>\fR
Use an index name other than "index.html"
.TP
\fB--https\fR \fI<port>\fR
Port to listen on for Secure HTTP.
.TP
\fB-c\fR, \fB--certificate\fR \fI<filename>\fR
SSL certificate to use for HTTPS. [default: server.pem]
.TP
\fB-k\fR, \fB--privkey\fR \fI<filename>\fR
SSL certificate to use for HTTPS. [default: server.pem]
.TP
\fB--processor\fR \fI<ext>=<class name>\fR
Adds a processor to those file names. (Only usable if after
.B --path)
.TP
\fB--resource-script\fR \fI<script name>\fR
Sets the root as a resource script. This script will be re-evaluated on
every request.
.PP
This creates a web.tap file that can be used by twistd. If you
specify no arguments, it will be a demo webserver that has the Test
class from twisted.web.test in it.
.SH \fBtoc\fR options
.TP
\fB\-p\fR \fI<port>\fR
<port> is a number representing which port you want to
start the server on.
.SH \fBmail\fR options
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\--relay\fR \fI<ip>,<port>=<queue directory>\fR
Relay mail to all unknown domains through given IP and port,
using queue directory as temporary place to place files.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\--domain\fR \fI<domain>\fR=\fI<path>\fR
generate an SMTP/POP3 virtual maildir domain named "domain" which saves to
"path"
.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\--username\fR \fI<name>\fR=\fI<password>\fR
add a user/password to the last specified domains
.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\--bounce_to_postmaster\fR
undelivered mails are sent to the postmaster, instead of being rejected.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\--pop\fR \fI<port>\fR
<port> is a number representing which port you want to
start the pop3 server on.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\--smtp\fR \fI<port>\fR
<port> is a number representing which port you want to
start the smtp server on.
.PP
This creates a mail.tap file that can be used by twistd(1)
.SH \fBtelnet\fR options
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\--port\fR \fI<port>\fR
Run the telnet server on <port>
.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\--username\fR \fI<name>\fR
set the username to <name>
.TP
\fB\-w\fR, \fB\--password\fR \fI<password>\fR
set the password to <password>
.SH \fBsocks\fR options
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\--interface\fR \fI<interface>\fR
Listen on interface <interface>
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\--port\fR \fI<port>\fR
Run the SOCKSv4 server on <port>
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\--log\fR \fI<filename>\fR
log connection data to <filename>
.SH \fBftp\fR options
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\--anonymous\fR
Allow anonymous logins
.TP
\fB\-3\fR, \fB\--thirdparty\fR
Allow third party connections
.TP
\fB\--otp\fR
Use one time passwords (OTP)
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\--port\fR \fI<port>\fR
Run the FTP server on <port>
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\--root\fR \fI<path>\fR
Define the local root of the FTP server
.TP
\fB\--anonymoususer\fR \fI<username>\fR
Define the the name of the anonymous user
.SH \fBmanhole\fR options
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\--port\fR \fI<port>\fR
Run the manhole server on <port>
.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\--user\fR \fI<name>\fR
set the username to <name>
.TP
\fB\-w\fR, \fB\--password\fR \fI<password>\fR
set the password to <password>
.SH \fBwords\fR options
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\--port\fR \fI<port>\fR
Run the Words server on <port>
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\--irc\fR \fI<port>\fR
Run IRC server on port <port>
.TP
\fB\-w\fR, \fB\--web\fR \fI<port>\fR
Run web server on port <port>
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Moshe Zadka, based on mktap's help messages
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
To report a bug, visit \fIhttp://twistedmatrix.com/bugs/\fR
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2000-2008 Twisted Matrix Laboratories.
.br
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
twistd(1)
