<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>The Evolution of Finger: making a finger library</title>
  </head>
<body>

<h1>The Evolution of Finger: making a finger library</h1>

<h2>Introduction</h2>

<p> This is the tenth part of the Twisted tutorial <a
href="index.xhtml">Twisted from Scratch, or The Evolution of Finger</a>.</p>

<p>In this part, we separate the application code that launches a finger service
from the library code which defines a finger service, placing the application in
a Twisted Application Configuration (.tac) file. We also move configuration
(such as HTML templates) into separate files. Configuration and deployment with
.tac and twistd are introduced in <a href="../application.xhtml">Using the
Twisted Application Framework</a>.</p>

<h2>Organization</h2>

<p>Now this code, while quite modular and well-designed, isn't
properly organized. Everything above the <code>application=</code> belongs in a
module, and the HTML templates all belong in separate files.
</p>

<p>We can use the <code>templateFile</code> and <code>templateDirectory</code>
attributes to indicate what HTML template file to use for each Page, and where
to look for it.</p>

<a href="listings/finger/organized-finger.tac" class="py-listing">organized-finger.tac</a>

<p>
Note that our program is now quite separated. We have:
<ul>
  <li>Code (in the module)</li>
  <li>Configuration (file above)</li>
  <li>Presentation (templates)</li>
  <li>Content (<code>/etc/users</code>)</li>
  <li>Deployment (twistd)</li>
</ul>

Prototypes don't need this level of separation, so our earlier examples all
bunched together. However, real applications do. Thankfully, if we write our
code correctly, it is easy to achieve a good separation of parts.
</p>


<h2>Easy Configuration</h2>

<p>We can also supply easy configuration for common cases with a makeService
method that will also help build .tap files later:</p>

<a href="listings/finger/finger_config.py" class="py-listing">finger_config.py</a>

<p>And we can write simpler files now:</p>

<a href="listings/finger/simple-finger.tac" class="py-listing">simple-finger.tac</a>

<pre class="shell">
% twisted -ny simple-finger.tac
</pre>


<p>Note: the finger <em>user</em> still has ultimate power: he can use
 <code>makeService</code>, or he can use the lower-level interface if he has
specific needs (maybe an IRC server on some other port? Maybe we want the
non-SSL webserver to listen only locally?  etc. etc.)  This is an important
design principle: never force a layer of abstraction: allow usage of layers of
abstractions.</p>

<p>The pasta theory of design:</p>

<ul>
<li>Spaghetti: each piece of code interacts with every other piece of
    code [can be implemented with GOTO, functions, objects]</li>
<li>Lasagna: code has carefully designed layers. Each layer is, in
    theory independent. However low-level layers usually cannot be
    used easily, and high-level layers depend on low-level layers.</li>
<li>Ravioli: each part of the code is useful by itself. There is a thin
    layer of interfaces between various parts [the sauce]. Each part
    can be usefully be used elsewhere.</li>
<li>...but sometimes, the user just wants to order <q>Ravioli</q>, so one
    coarse-grain easily definable layer of abstraction on top of it all
    can be useful.</li>
</ul>


</body>
</html>
