<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Twisted Writing Standard</title>
  </head>

  <body>
    <h1>Twisted Writing Standard</h1>

    <p>The Twisted writing standard describes the documentation writing
    styles we prefer in our documentation. This standard applies particularly
    to howtos and other descriptive documentation.</p>

    <p>This document should be read with the <a
    href="doc-standard.xhtml">documentation standard</a>, which describes
    markup style for the documentation.</p>

    <p>This document is meant to help Twisted documentation authors produce
    documentation that does not have the following problems:</p>

    <ul>
    <li>misleads users about what is good Twisted style;</li>
    <li>misleads users into thinking that an advanced howto is an introduction
    to writing their first Twisted server; and</li>
    <li>misleads users about whether they fit the document's target audience:
    for example, that they are able to use enterprise without knowing how to
    write SQL queries.</li>
    </ul>

    <h2>Introductions</h2>

    <p>The introductory section of a Twisted howto should immediately follow
    the top-level heading and precede any subheadings.</p>

    <p>The following items should be present in the introduction to Twisted
    howtos: the introductory paragraph and the description of the target
    audience.</p>

    <h3>Introductory paragraph</h3>

    <p>The introductory paragraph of a document should sumamrise what the
    document is designed to present. It should use the both proper names for
    the Twisted technologies and simple non-Twisted descriptions of the
    technologies. For example, in this paragraph both the name of the technology
    (&quot;Conch&quot;) and a description (&quot;SSH server&quot;) are used:</p>

    <blockquote>
    This document describes setting up a SSH server to serve data from the
    file system using Conch, the Twisted SSH implementation.
    </blockquote>

    <p>The introductory paragraph should be relatively short, but should, like
    the above, somewhere define the document's objective: what the reader
    should be able to do using instructions in the document.</p>

    <h3>Description of target audience</h3>

    <p>Subsequent paragraphs in the introduction should describe the target
    audience of the document: who would want to read it, and what they should
    know before they can expect to use your document. For example:</p>

    <blockquote>
    The target audience of this document is a Twisted user who has a set of
    filesystem like data objects that they would like to make available to
    authenticated users over SFTP.
    
    Following the directions in this document will require that you are
    familiar with managing authentication via the Twisted Cred system.
    </blockquote>

    <p>Use your discretion about the extent to which you list assumed
    knowledge. Very introductory documents that are going to be among a
    reader's first exposure to Twisted will even need to specify that they
    rely on knowledge of Python and of certain networking concepts (ports,
    servers, clients, connections) but documents that are going to be sought
    out by existing Twisted users for particular purposes only need to specify
    other Twisted knowledge that is assumed.</p>

    <p>Any knowledge of technologies that wouldn't be considered &quot;core
    Python&quot; and/or &quot;simple networking&quot; need to be explicitly
    specified, no matter how obvious they seem to someone familiar with the
    technology. For example, it needs to be stated that someone using
    enterprise should know SQL and should know how to set up and populate
    databases for testing purposes.</p>

    <p>Where possible, link to other documents that will fill in missing
    knowledge for the reader. Linking to documents in the Twisted repository
    is preferred but not essential.</p>

  </body>
</html>

