.TH GENERATELORE "1" "October 2002" "" ""
.SH NAME
lore \- convert documentations formats
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lore [-l \fIlinkrel\fR] [-d \fIdocsdir\fR]  [-i \fIinput\fR] [-o \fIoutput\fR] [--config attribute[=value] [...]] [-p] [file [...]]
.PP
.B lore --help
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \fB\--help\fR prints out a usage message to standard output.
.TP
\fB-p\fR, \fB--plain\fR
Use non-flashy progress bar \- one file per line.
.TP
\fB-n\fR, \fB--null\fR
Do not report progress at all.
.TP
\fB-N\fR, \fB--number\fR
Add chapter/section numbers to section headings.
.TP
\fI-l\fR, \fI--linkrel\fR
Where non-document links should be relative to.
.TP
\fI-d\fR, \fI--docsdir\fR
Where to look for \fB.html\fR files if no files are given.
.TP
\fI-e\fR, \fI--inputext\fR <extension>
The extension that your Lore input files have (default: .xhtml)
.TP
\fI-i\fR, \fI--input\fR
Input format. New input formats can be dynamically registered. Lore itself
comes with "lore" (the standard format), "mlore" (allows LaTeX equations)
and "man" (man page format). If the input format is not registered as a plugin,
a module of the named input will be searched. For example, 
.B --i twisted.lore.default
is equivalent to using the default Lore input.
.TP
\fI-o\fR, \fI--output\fR
Output format. Available output formats depend on the input. For the core
formats, lore and mlore support html, latex and lint, while man allows
lore.
.TP
\fI-x\fR, \fI--index\fR <filename>
The base filename you want to give your index file.
.TP
\fI-b\fR, \fI--book\fR <filename>
The book file to generate a book from.
.TP
\fI--prefixurl\fR <prefix>
The prefix to stick on to relative links; only useful when processing 
directories.
.TP
\fI--version\fR
Display version information and exit.
.TP
\fI--config\fR
Add input/output-specific information. 
HTML output allows for 'ext=<extension>',
'template=<template>' and 'baseurl=<format string for API URLs>'. LaTeX
output allows for 'section' or 'chapter' in Lore, and nothing in Math-Lore. 
Lore output allows for 'ext=<extension>'. Lint output allows nothing.
Note that disallowed \fI--config\fR options are merely ignored, and do
not cause errors.
.SH DESCRIPTION
If no files are given, all *.html documents in docsdir are processed.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Moshe Zadka
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
To report a bug, visit \fIhttp://twistedmatrix.com/bugs/\fR
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2003-2008 Twisted Matrix Laboratories.
.br
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
