<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>NewPB Schemas</title>
<link href="stylesheet-unprocessed.css" type="text/css" rel="style" />
</head>

<body>
<h1>NewPB Schemas</h1>

<em>NOTE! This is all preliminary and is more an exercise in semiconscious
protocol design than anything else. Do not believe this document. This
sentence is lying. So there.</em>


<h3>Existing <code>Constraint</code> classes</h3>

<table border="" width="">
  <tr><td>class name</td><td>shortcut</td><td></td></tr>

  <tr>
    <td><code>Any()</code></td>
    <td></td>
    <td>accept anything</td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td><code>StringConstraint(maxLength=1000)</code></td>
    <td><code>str</code></td>
    <td>string of up to maxLength characters (maxLength=None means
      unlimited), or a VOCAB sequence of any length</td>
    </tr>

  <tr>
    <td><code>IntegerConstraint(maxBytes=-1)</code></td>
    <td><code>int</code></td>
    <td>integer. maxBytes=-1 means s_int32_t, =N means LONGINT which can be
      expressed in N or fewer bytes (i.e. abs(num) &lt; 2**(8*maxBytes)),
      =None means unlimited. NOTE: shortcut 'long' is like shortcut 'int' but
      maxBytes=1024.</td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td><code>NumberConstraint(maxBytes=1024)</code></td>
    <td><code>float</code></td>

    <td>integer or float. Integers are limited by maxBytes as in
      <code>IntegerConstraint</code>, floats are fixed size.</td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td><code>BooleanConstraint(value=None)</code></td>
    <td><code>bool</code></td>

    <td>True or False. If value=True, only accepts True. If value=False,
      only accepts False. NOTE: value= is a very silly parameter.</td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td><code>InterfaceConstraint(iface)</code></td>
    <td>Interface</td>

    <td>TODO. UNSAFE. Accepts an instance which claims to implement the given
      Interface. The shortcut is simply any Interface subclass.</td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td><code>ClassConstraint</code></td>
    <td>Class</td>

    <td>TODO. UNSAFE. Accepts an instance which claims to be of the given
      class name. The shortcut is simply any (old-style) class object.</td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td><code>PolyConstraint(*alternatives)</code></td>
    <td>(alt1, alt2)</td>

    <td>Accepts any object which obeys at least one of the alternative
      constraints provided. Implements a logical OR function of the given
      constraints. Also known as <code>ChoiceOf</code>.</td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td><code>TupleConstraint(*elemConstraints)</code></td>
    <td></td>

    <td>Accepts a tuple of fixed length with elements that obey the given
      constraints. Also known as <code>TupleOf</code>.</td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td><code>ListConstraint(elemConstraint, maxLength=30)</code></td>
    <td></td>

    <td>Accepts a list of up to maxLength items, each of which obeys the
    element constraint provided. Also known as <code>ListOf</code>.</td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td><code>DictConstraint(keyConstraint, valueConstraint, maxKeys=30)</code></td>
    <td></td>

    <td>Accepts a dictionary of up to maxKeys items. Each key must obey
      keyConstraint and each value must obey valueConstraint. Also known
      as <code>DictOf</code>.</td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td><code>AttributeDictConstraint(*attrTuples, **kwargs)</code></td>
    <td></td>

    <td>Constrains dictionaries used to describe instance attributes, as used
      by RemoteCopy. Each attrTuple is a pair of (attrname, constraint), used
      to constraint individual named attributes. kwargs['attributes']
      provides the same control. kwargs['ignoreUnknown'] is a boolean flag
      which indicates that unknown attributes in inbound state should simply
      be dropped. kwargs['acceptUnknown'] indicates that unknown attributes
      should be accepted into the instance state dictionary.</td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td><code>RemoteMethodSchema(method=None, _response=None,
      __options=[], **kwargs)</code></td>
    <td></td>

    <td>Constrains arguments and return value of a single remotely-invokable
    method. If method= is provided, the <code>inspect</code> module is used
    to extract constraints from the method itself (positional arguments are
    not allowed, default values of keyword arguments provide constraints for
    each argument, the results of running the method provide the return value
    constraint). If not, most kwargs items provide constraints for method
    arguments, _response provides a constraint for the return value.
    __options and additional kwargs keys provide neato whiz-bang future
    expansion possibilities.</td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td><code>Shared(constraint, refLimit=None)</code></td>
    <td></td>

    <td>TODO. Allows objects with refcounts no greater than refLimit (=None
      means unlimited). Wraps another constraint, which the object must obey.
      refLimit=1 rejects shared objects.</td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td><code>Optional(constraint, default)</code></td>
    <td></td>

    <td>TODO. Can be used to tag Copyable attributes or (maybe) method
    arguments. Wraps another constraint. If an object is provided, it must
    obey the constraint. If not provided, the default value will be given in
    its place.</td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td><code>FailureConstraint()</code></td>
    <td></td>

    <td>Constrains the contents of a CopiedFailure.</td>
  </tr>

</table>
  

<pre>

"""

RemoteReference objects should all be tagged with interfaces that they
implement, which point to representations of the method schemas.  When a remote
method is called, PB should look up the appropriate method and serialize the
argument list accordingly.

We plan to eliminate positional arguments, so local RemoteReferences use their
schema to convert callRemote calls with positional arguments to all-keyword
arguments before serialization.

Conversion to the appropriate version interface should be handled at the
application level.  Eventually, with careful use of twisted.python.context, we
might be able to provide automated tools for helping application authors
automatically convert interface calls and isolate version-conversion code, but
that is probably pretty hard.

"""


class Attributes:
    def __init__(self,*a,**k):
        pass

X = Attributes(
    ('hello', str),
    ('goodbye', int),
    ('next', Shared(Narf)),             # allow the possibility of multiple or circular references
                                        # the default is to make multiple copies
                                        # to avoid making the serializer do extra work
    ('asdf', ListOf(Narf, maxLength=30)),
    ('fdsa', (Narf, String(maxLength=5), int)),
    ('qqqq', DictOf(str, Narf, maxKeys=30)),
    ('larg', AttributeDict(('A', int),
                           ('X', Number),
                           ('Z', float))),
    Optional("foo", str),
    Optional("bar", str, default=None),
    ignoreUnknown=True,
    )

X = Attributes(
    attributes={ 'hello': str,     # this form doesn't allow Optional()
                 'goodbye': int,
               },
    Optional("foo", str),  # but both can be used at once
    ignoreUnknown=True)

class Narf(Remoteable):
    # step 1
    __schema__ = X
    # step 2 (possibly - this loses information)
    class schema:
        hello = str
        goodbye = int
        class add:
            x = Number
            y = Number
            __return__ = Copy(Number)

        class getRemoteThingy:
            fooID = Arg(WhateverID, default=None)
            barID = Arg(WhateverID, default=None)
            __return__ = Reference(Narf)

    # step 3 - this is the only example that shows argument order, which we
    # _do_ need in order to translate positional arguments to callRemote, so
    # don't take the nested-classes example too seriously.

    schema = """
    int add (int a, int b)
    """

    # Since the above schema could also be used for Formless, or possibly for
    # World (for state) we can also do:

    class remote_schema:
        """blah blah
        """

    # You could even subclass that from the other one...

    class remote_schema(schema):
        dontUse = 'hello', 'goodbye'

            
    def remote_add(self, x, y):
        return x + y

    def rejuvinate(self, deadPlayer):
        return Reference(deadPlayer.bringToLife())

    # "Remoteable" is a new concept - objects which may be method-published
    # remotely _or_ copied remotely.  The schema objects support both method /
    # interface definitions and state definitions, so which one gets used can
    # be defined by the sending side as to whether it sends a
    # Copy(theRemoteable) or Reference(theRemoteable)

    # (also, with methods that are explicitly published by a schema there is no
    # longer technically any security need for the remote_ prefix, which, based
    # on past experience can be kind of annoying if you want to provide the
    # same methods locally and remotely)

    # outstanding design choice - Referenceable and Copyable are subclasses of
    # Remoteable, but should they restrict the possibility of sending it the
    # other way or 

    def getPlayerInfo(self, playerID):
        return CopyOf(self.players[playerID])

    def getRemoteThingy(self, fooID, barID):
        return ReferenceTo(self.players[selfPlayerID])


class RemoteNarf(Remoted):
    __schema__ = X
    # or, example of a difference between local and remote
    class schema:
        class getRemoteThingy:
            __return__ = Reference(RemoteNarf)
        class movementUpdate:
            posX = int
            posY = int
            __return__ = None           # No return value
            __wait__ = False            # Don't wait for the answer
            __reliable__ = False        # Feel free to send this over UDP
            __ordered__ = True          # but send in order!
            __priority__ = 3            # use priority queue / stream 3
            __failure__ = FullFailure   # allow full serialization of failures
            __failure__ = ErrorMessage  # default: trivial failures, or str or int

            # These options may imply different method names - e.g. '__wait__ =
            # False' might imply that you can't use callRemote, you have to
            # call 'sendRemote' instead... __reliable__ = False might be
            # 'callRemoteUnreliable' (longer method name to make it less
            # convenient to call by accident...)


## (and yes, donovan, we know that TypedInterface exists and we are going to
## use it.  we're just screwing around with other syntaxes to see what about PB
## might be different.)

Common banana sequences:

A reference to a remote object.
   (On the sending side: Referenceable or ReferenceTo(aRemoteable)
    On the receiving side: RemoteReference)
('remote', reference-id, interface, version, interface, version, ...)


A call to a remote method:
('fastcall', request-id, reference-id, method-name, 'arg-name', arg1, 'arg-name', arg2)

A call to a remote method with extra spicy metadata:
('call', request-id, reference-id, interface, version, method-name, 'arg-name', arg1, 'arg-name', arg2)

Special hack: request-id of 0 means 'do not answer this call, do not acknowledge', etc.

Answer to a method call:
('answer', request-id, response)
('error', request-id, response)

Decrement a reference incremented by 'remote' command:
('decref', reference-id)

Broker currently has 9 proto_ methods:

_version(vnum): accept a version number, compare to ours, reject if different

_didNotUnderstand(command): log command, maybe drop connection

_message(reqID, objID, message, answerRequired, netArgs, netKw):
_cachemessage (like _message but finds objID with self.cachedLocallyAs instead
               of self.localObjectForID, used by RemoteCacheMethod and
               RemoteCacheObserver)
 look up objID, invoke it with .remoteMessageReceived(message, args),
 send "answer"(reqID, results)

_answer(reqID, results): look up self.waitingForAnswers[reqID] and fire
                         callback with results

_error(reqID, failure): lookup waitingForAnswers, fire errback

_decref(objID): dec refcount of self.localObjects[objID]. Sent in
                RemoteReference.__del__

_decache(objID): dec refcount of self.remotelyCachedObjects[objID]

_uncache(objID): remove obj from self.locallyCachedObjects[objID]

</pre>

<h2>stuff</h2>

<p>A RemoteReference/RemoteCopy (called a Remote for now) has a schema
attached to it. remote.callRemote(methodname, *args) does
schema.getMethodSchema(methodname) to obtain a MethodConstraint that
describes the individual method. This MethodConstraint (or MethodSchema) has
other attributes which are used by either end: what arguments are allowed
and/or expected, calling conventions (synchronous, in-order, priority, etc),
and how the return value should be constrained.</p>

<p>To use the Remote like a RemoteCopy ...</p>

<pre>

Remote:
 .methods
 .attributes
 .getMethodSchema(methodname) -> MethodConstraint
 .getAttributeSchema(attrname) -> a Constraint

XPCOM idl specifies methods and attributes (readonly, readwrite). A Remote
object which represented a distant XPCOM object would have a Schema that is
created by parsing the IDL. Its callRemote would do the appropriate
marshalling. Issue1: XPCOM lets methods have in/out/inout parameters.. these
must be detected and a wrapper generated. Issue2: what about attribute
set/get operations? Could add setRemote and getRemote for these.

---

Some of the schema questions come down to how PBRootSlicer should deal with
instances. The question is whether to treat the instance as a Referenceable
(copy-by-reference: create and transmit a reference number, which will be
turned into a RemoteReference on the other end), or as a Copyable
(copy-by-value: collect some instance state and send it as an instance).
This decision could be made by looking at what the instance inherits from:

  if isinstance(obj, pb.Referenceable):
      sendByReference(obj)
  elif isinstance(obj, pb.Copyable):
      sendByValue(obj)
  else:
      raise InsecureJellyError

or by what it can be adapted to:

  r = IReferenceable(obj, None)
  if r:
      sendByReference(r)
  else:
      r = ICopyable(obj, None)
      if r:
          sendByValue(r)
      else:
          raise InsecureJellyError

The decision could also be influenced by the sending schema currently in
effect. Side A invokes a method on side B. A knows of a schema which states
that the 'foo' argument of this method should be a CopyableSpam, so it
requires the object be adaptable to ICopyableSpam (which is then copied by
value) tries to comply when that argument is serialized. B will enforce its
own schema. When B returns a result to A, the method-result schema on B's
side can influence how the return value is handled.

For bonus points, it may be possible to send the object as a combination of
these two. That may get pretty hard to follow, though.

</pre>

<h2>adapters and Referenceable/Copyable</h2>

<p>One possibility: rather than using a SlicerRegistry, use Adapters. The
ISliceable interface has one method: getSlicer(). Slicer.py would register
adapters for basic types (list, dict, etc) that would just return an
appropriate ListSlicer, etc. Instances which would have been pb.Copyable
subclasses in oldpb can still inherit from pb.Copyable, which now implements
ISliceable and produces a Slicer (opentype='instance') that calls
getStateToCopy() (although the subclass-__implements__ handling is now more
important than before). pb.Referenceable implements ISlicer and produces a
Slicer (opentype='reference'?) which (possibly) registers itself in the
broker and then sends the reference number (along with a schema if necessary
(and the other end wants them)).</p>

<p>Classes are also welcome to implement ISlicer themselves and produce
whatever clever (streaming?) Slicer objects they like.</p>

<p>On the receiving side, we still need a registry to provide reasonable
security. There are two registries. The first is the
RootUnslicer.openRegistry, and maps OPEN types to Unslicer factories. It is
used in doOpen().</p>

<p>The second registry should map opentype=instance class names to something
which can handle the instance contents. Should this be a replacement
Unslicer?</p>

</body> </html>
