.TH CONCH "1" "October 2002" "" ""
.SH NAME
tkconch \- connect to SSH servers graphically
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B conch [-l \fIuser\fR] [-i \fIidentity\fR [ -i \fIidentity\fR ... ]] [-c \fIcipher\fR] [-m \fIMAC\fR] [-p \fIport\fR] [-n] [-t] [-T] [-V] [-C] [-N] [-s] [arg [...]]
.PP
.B conch --help
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \fB\--help\fR prints out a usage message to standard output.
.TP
\fB-l\fR, \fB--user\fR <user>
Log in using this user name.
.TP
\fB-e\fR, \fB--escape\fR <escape character>
Set escape character; 'none' = disable (default: ~)
.TP
\fB-i\fR, \fB--identity\fR <identity>
Add an identity file for public key authentication (default: ~/.ssh/identity)
.TP
\fB-c\fR, \fB--cipher\fR <cipher>
Cipher algorithm to use.
.TP
\fB-m\fR, \fB--macs\fR <mac>
Specify MAC algorithms for protocol version 2.
.TP
\fB-p\fR, \fB--port\fR <port>
Port to connect to.
.TP
\fB-L\fR, \fB--localforward\fR <listen-port:host:port>
Forward local port to remote address.
.TP
\fB-R\fR, \fB--remoteforward\fR <listen-port:host:port>
Forward remote port to local address.
.TP
\fB-t\fR, \fB--tty\fR
Allocate a tty even if command is given.
.TP
\fB-n\fR, \fB--notty\fR
Do not allocate a tty.
.TP
\fB-V\fR, \fB--version\fR
Display version number only.
.TP
\fB-C\fR, \fB--compress\fR
Enable compression.
.TP
\fB-a\fR, \fB--ansilog\fR
Print the received data to stdout.
.TP
\fB-N\fR, \fB--noshell\fR
Do not execute a shell or command.
.TP
\fB-s\fR, \fB--subsystem\fR
Invoke command (mandatory) as SSH2 subsystem.
.TP
\fB--log\fR
Print the receieved data to stderr.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Open an SSH connection to specified server, and either run the command
given there or open a remote interactive shell.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Moshe Zadka, based on conch's help messages
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
To report a bug, visit \fIhttp://twistedmatrix.com/bugs/\fR
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2002-2008 Twisted Matrix Laboratories.
.br
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ssh(1)
