.TH TAP2DEB "1" "July 2001" "" ""
.SH NAME
tap2deb \- create Debian packages which wrap .tap files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tap2deb
[options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Create a ready to upload Debian package in ".build"
.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\--unsigned\fR 
do not sign the Debian package
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\--tapfile\fR \fI<tapfile>\fR
Build the application around the given .tap (default twistd.tap)
.TP
\fB\-y\fR, \fB\--type\fR \fI<type>\fR
The configuration has the given type . Allowable types are
\fBtap\fR, \fBsource\fR, \fBxml\fR and \fBpython\fR.
The first three types are \fBmktap\fR output formats,
while the last one is a manual building of application 
(see \fBtwistd(1)\fR, the \fB\-y\fR option).
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\--protocol\fR \fI<protocol>\fR
The name of the protocol this will be used to serve. This is intended
as a part of the description. Default is the name of the tapfile, minus
any extensions.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\--debfile\fR \fI<debfile>\fR
The name of the debian package. Default is 'twisted-'+protocol.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\--set-version\fR \fI<version>\fR
The version of the Debian package. The default is 1.0
.TP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\--description\fR \fI<description>\fR
The one-line description. Default is uninteresting.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\--long_description\fR \fI<long_description>\fR
A multi-line description. Default is explanation about
this being an automatic package created from tap2deb.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\--maintainer\fR \fI<maintainer>\fR
The maintainer, as "Name Lastname <email address>". This will
go in the meta-files, as well as be used as the id to sign the package.
.TP
\fB\--version\fR
Output version information and exit.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Moshe Zadka, based on twistd's help messages
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
To report a bug, visit \fIhttp://twistedmatrix.com/bugs/\fR
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2000-2008 Twisted Matrix Laboratories.
.br
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
