.TH TAP2RPM "1" "July 2001" "" ""
.SH NAME
tap2rpm \- create RPM packages which wrap .tap files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tap2rpm
[options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Create a set of RPM/SRPM packages in the current directory
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\--tapfile\fR \fI<tapfile>\fR
Build the application around the given .tap (default twistd.tap)
.TP
\fB\-y\fR, \fB\--type\fR \fI<type>\fR
The configuration has the given type . Allowable types are
\fBtap\fR, \fBsource\fR, \fBxml\fR and \fBpython\fR.
The first three types are \fBmktap\fR output formats,
while the last one is a manual building of application 
(see \fBtwistd(1)\fR, the \fB\-y\fR option).
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\--protocol\fR \fI<protocol>\fR
The name of the protocol this will be used to serve. This is intended
as a part of the description. Default is the name of the tapfile, minus
any extensions.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\--rpmfile\fR \fI<rpmfile>\fR
The name of the RPM package. Default is 'twisted-'+protocol.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\--set-version\fR \fI<version>\fR
The version of the RPM package. The default is 1.0
.TP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\--description\fR \fI<description>\fR
The one-line description. Default is uninteresting.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\--long_description\fR \fI<long_description>\fR
A multi-line description. Default is explanation about
this being an automatic package created from tap2rpm.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\--maintainer\fR \fI<maintainer>\fR
The maintainer, as "Name Lastname <email address>". This will
go in the meta-files.
.TP
\fB\--version\fR
Output version information and exit.
.SH AUTHOR
tap2rpm was written by Sean Reifschneider based on tap2deb by Moshe Zadka.
This man page is heavily based on the tap2deb man page by Moshe Zadka.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
To report a bug, visit
\fIhttp://twistedmatrix.com/trac/wiki/TwistedDevelopment#FilingTickets\fR for more
information.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2000-2009 Twisted Matrix Laboratories.
.br
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
