<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Reactor Overview</title>
  </head>
  <body>

    <h1>Reactor Overview</h1>

    <p>
    This HOWTO introduces the Twisted reactor, describes the basics of the
    reactor and links to the various reactor interfaces.
    </p>
  
    <h2>Reactor Basics</h2>

    <p>The reactor is the core of the event loop within Twisted -- the loop
    which drives applications using Twisted. The event loop is a programming
    construct that waits for and dispatches events or messages in a program.
    It works by calling some internal or external "event provider", which
    generally blocks until an event has arrived, and then calls the relevant
    event handler ("dispatches the event"). The reactor provides basic
    interfaces to a number of services, including network communications,
    threading, and event dispatching.
    </p>

    <p>
    For information about using the reactor and the Twisted event loop, see:
    </p>

    <ul>
    <li>the event dispatching howtos: <a href="time.xhtml">Scheduling</a> and <a
    href="defer.xhtml">Using Deferreds</a>;</li>
    <li>the communication howtos: <a href="servers.xhtml">TCP
    servers</a>, <a href="clients.xhtml">TCP clients</a>, <a
    href="udp.xhtml">UDP networking</a> and <a href="process.xhtml">Using
    processes</a>; and</li>
    <li><a href="threading.xhtml">Using threads</a>.</li>
    </ul>

    <p>There are multiple implementations of the reactor, each
    modified to provide better support for specialized features
    over the default implementation.  More information about these
    and how to use a particular implementation is available via
    <a href="choosing-reactor.xhtml">Choosing a Reactor</a>.</p>

    
    <p>
    Twisted applications can use the interfaces in <code
    class="API">twisted.application.service</code> to configure and run the
    application instead of using
    boilerplate reactor code. See <a
    href="application.xhtml">Using Application</a> for an introduction to
    Application.
    </p>

    <h2>Using the reactor object</h2>

    <p>You can get to the <code class="API"
    base="twisted.internet">reactor</code> object using the following code:</p>

<pre class="python">
from twisted.internet import reactor
</pre>

    <p>The reactor usually implements a set of interfaces, but 
       depending on the chosen reactor and the platform, some of
       the interfaces may not be implemented:</p>

    <ul>
      <li><code class="API" base="twisted.internet.interfaces"
        >IReactorCore</code>: Core (required) functionality.</li>
      <li><code class="API" base="twisted.internet.interfaces"
        >IReactorFDSet</code>: Use FileDescriptor objects.</li>
      <li><code class="API" base="twisted.internet.interfaces"
        >IReactorProcess</code>: Process management. Read the 
        <a href="process.xhtml">Using Processes</a> document for
        more information.</li>
      <li><code class="API" base="twisted.internet.interfaces"
        >IReactorSSL</code>: SSL networking support.</li>
      <li><code class="API" base="twisted.internet.interfaces"
        >IReactorTCP</code>: TCP networking support. More information
        can be found in the <a href="servers.xhtml">Writing Servers</a>
        and <a href="clients.xhtml">Writing Clients</a> documents.</li>
      <li><code class="API" base="twisted.internet.interfaces"
        >IReactorThreads</code>: Threading use and management. More
        information can be found within <a href="threading.xhtml"
        >Threading In Twisted</a>.</li>
      <li><code class="API" base="twisted.internet.interfaces"
        >IReactorTime</code>: Scheduling interface.  More information
        can be found within <a href="time.xhtml">Scheduling Tasks</a>.</li>
      <li><code class="API" base="twisted.internet.interfaces"
        >IReactorUDP</code>: UDP networking support. More information
        can be found within <a href="udp.xhtml">UDP Networking</a>.</li>
      <li><code class="API" base="twisted.internet.interfaces"
        >IReactorUNIX</code>: UNIX socket support.</li>
    </ul>
  </body>
</html>
