<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"
    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>The Vision For Twisted</title>
  </head>

  <body>
    <h1>The Vision For Twisted</h1>

    <p>Many other documents in this repository are dedicated to
    defining what Twisted is. Here, I will attempt to explain not
    what Twisted is, but what it should be, once I've met my goals
    with it.</p>

    <p>First, Twisted should be fun. It began as a game, it is
    being used commercially in games, and it will be, I hope, an
    interactive and entertaining experience for the end-user.</p>

    <p>Twisted is a platform for developing internet applications.
    While python, by itself, is a very powerful language, there are
    many facilities it lacks which other languages have spent great
    attention to adding. It can do this now; Twisted is a good (if
    somewhat idiosyncratic) pure-python framework or library,
    depending on how you treat it, and it continues to improve.</p>

    <p>As a platform, Twisted should be focused on integration.
    Ideally, all functionality will be accessible through all
    protocols. Failing that, all functionality should be
    configurable through at least one protocol, with a seamless and
    consistent user-interface. The next phase of development will
    be focusing strongly on a configuration system which will unify
    many disparate pieces of the current infrastructure, and allow
    them to be tacked together by a non-programmer.</p>

  </body>
</html>

