.TH MKTAP "1" "July 2001" "" ""
.SH NAME
mktap \- create twisted.servers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mktap
\fIapptype\fR [\fIapplication_option\fR]...
.B mktap
--help \fIapptype\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \fB\--help\fR prints out a usage message to standard output.
.TP 
\fB\--uid\fR, \fB\-u\fR \fI<uid>\fR
Application belongs to this uid, and should run with its permissions.
.TP 
\fB\--gid\fR, \fB\-d\fR \fI<gid>\fR
Application belongs to this gid, and should run with its permissions.
.TP 
\fB\--append\fR, \fB\-a\fR \fI<file>\fR
Append given servers to given file, instead of creating a new one.
File should be be a tap file.
.PP
\fIapptype\fR can be 'web', 'irc', 'reality', 'toc', 'mail' and 'telnet'.
Each of those support different options.
.PP
.SH \fBweb\fR options
.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\--user\fR
Makes a server with ~/public_html and
~/.twistd-web-service support for users.
.TP
\fB\--personal\fR
Instead of generating a webserver, generate a
ResourcePublisher which listens on ~/.twistd-web-service
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\--module\fR \fI<modulename:classname>\fR
modulename is a python module without the .py extension.
This module does not have to be in the PATH or even
PYTHONPATH. classname is the name of the class inside
the module that you want to be the root of the web
server.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\--static\fR \fI<path>\fR
<path> is either a specific file or a directory to be
set as the root of the web server. Use this if you
have a directory full of HTML, cgi, or php3 files or
any other files that you want to be served up raw.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\--port\fR \fI<port>\fR
<port> is a number representing which port you want to
start the server on.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\--telnet\fR \fI<port>\fR
Run a telnet server on <port>, for additional
configuration later.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\--index\fR \fI<name>\fR
Use an index name other than "index.html"
.PP
This creates a web.tap file that can be used by twistd. If you
specify no arguments, it will be a demo webserver that has the Test
class from twisted.web.test in it.
.SH \fBreality\fR options
.TP
\fB\-m\fR \fI<map.rpl>\fR
map.rpl should be a reality pickle.
.PP
Reality PickLe files are created using the gnusto(1) utility on a build_map file
from a Twisted Reality distribution.  Some realities can be found at
http://twistedmatrix.com/reality.epy.
.SH \fBtoc\fR options
.TP
\fB\-p\fR \fI<port>\fR
<port> is a number representing which port you want to
start the server on.
.SH \fBmail\fR options
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\--domain\fR \fI<domain>\fR=\fI<path>\fR
generate an SMTP/POP3 virtual maildir domain named "domain" which saves to 
"path"
.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\--username\fR \fI<name>\fR=\fI<password>\fR
add a user/password to the last specified domains
.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\--bounce_to_postmaster\fR
undelivered mails are sent to the postmaster, instead of being rejected.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\--pop\fR \fI<port>\fR
<port> is a number representing which port you want to
start the pop3 server on.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\--smtp\fR \fI<port>\fR
<port> is a number representing which port you want to
start the smtp server on.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\--telnet\fR \fI<port>\fR
Run a telnet server on <port>, for additional
configuration later.
.PP
This creates a mail.tap file that can be used by twistd(1)
.SH \fBtelnet\fR options
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\--port\fR \fI<port>\fR
Run the telnet server on <port>
.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\--username\fR \fI<name>\fR
set the username to <name>
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\--password\fR \fI<password>\fR
set the password to <password>
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Moshe Zadka, based on mktap's help messages
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <twisted-python@twistedmatrix.com>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2000 Glyph Lefkowitz
.br
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
twistd(1), gnusto(1)
