.Dd October 8, 2005
.Dt CFTP 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm cftp
.Nd Conch command-line SFTP client
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm cftp
.Op Fl B Ar buffer_size
.Op Fl b Ar command_file
.Op Fl R Ar num_requests
.Op Fl s Ar subsystem
.Os
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a client for logging into a remote machine and executing commands to send and receive file information. It can wrap a number of file transfer subsystems
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl B
Specifies the default size of the buffer to use for sending and receiving. (Default value: 32768 bytes.)
.It Fl b
File to read commands from, '-' for stdin. (Default value: interactive/stdin.)
.It Fl R
Number of requests to make before waiting for a reply.
.It Fl s
Subsystem/server program to connect to.
.El
.Pp
The following commands are recognised by
.Nm
:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Ic cd Ar path
Change the remote directory to 'path'.
.It Ic chgrp Ar gid Ar path
Change the gid of 'path' to 'gid'.
.It Ic chmod Ar mode Ar path
Change mode of 'path' to 'mode'.
.It Ic chown Ar uid Ar path
Change uid of 'path' to 'uid'.
.It Ic exit
Disconnect from the server.
.It Ic get Ar remote-path Op Ar local-path
Get remote file and optionally store it at specified local path.
.It Ic help
Get a list of available commands.
.It Ic lcd Ar path
Change local directory to 'path'.
.It Ic lls Op Ar ls-options Op Ar path
Display local directory listing.
.It Ic lmkdir Ar path
Create local directory.
.It Ic ln Ar linkpath Ar targetpath
Symlink remote file.
.It Ic lpwd
Print the local working directory.
.It Ic ls Op Ar -l Op Ar path
Display remote directory listing.
.It Ic mkdir Ar path
Create remote directory.
.It Ic progress
Toggle progress bar.
.It Ic put Ar local-path Op Ar remote-path
Transfer local file to remote location
.It Ic pwd
Print the remote working directory.
.It Ic quit
Disconnect from the server.
.It Ic rename Ar oldpath Ar newpath
Rename remote file.
.It Ic rmdir Ar path
Remove remote directory.
.It Ic rm Ar path
Remove remote file.
.It Ic version
Print the SFTP version.
.It Ic ?
Synonym for 'help'.
.El
.Sh AUTHOR
cftp by Paul Swartz <z3p@twistedmatrix.com>. Man page by Mary Gardiner <mary@twistedmatrix.com>.
.Sh "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to \fIhttp://twistedmatrix.com/bugs/\fR
.Sh COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2005-2008 Twisted Matrix Laboratories
.br 
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
