docs/community.rst, before:

Twisted Community
#################

For interacting with the twisted community members, you have several options:

Mail Lists
==========

If you want to participate in Twisted's community or development, you probably want to join the main mailing list:

- `twisted-python <https://mail.python.org/mailman3/lists/twisted.python.org/>`_ - the main Twisted discussion list

You can subscribe to the mailing list using the web interface linked above.

ML Archives:

- `Current list archive <https://mail.python.org/archives/list/twisted@python.org/>`_
- `Other archives <https://github.com/twisted/pipermail>`_

Stack Overflow
==============

Stack Overflow is a programming Q & A site.  You can find Twisted-related questions there, often with answers:

- https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/twisted

Real-Time Chat
==============

Server: ``irc.libera.chat`` (more about `the Libera IRC network <https://libera.chat>`_)

For support, you can join this channel:

- `#twisted <irc://irc.libera.chat/twisted>`_  - support for Twisted and its ecosystem

Blogs
=====

Read `Planet Twisted <https://planet.twistedmatrix.com/>`_.

Commit message:

#11652 Mention the Twisted Gitter channel

docs/community.rst, after:

Twisted Community
#################

For interacting with the twisted community members, you have several options:

Mail Lists
==========

If you want to participate in Twisted's community or development, you probably want to join the main mailing list:

- `twisted-python <https://mail.python.org/mailman3/lists/twisted.python.org/>`_ - the main Twisted discussion list

You can subscribe to the mailing list using the web interface linked above.

ML Archives:

- `Current list archive <https://mail.python.org/archives/list/twisted@python.org/>`_
- `Other archives <https://github.com/twisted/pipermail>`_

Stack Overflow
==============

Stack Overflow is a programming Q & A site.  You can find Twisted-related questions there, often with answers:

- https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/twisted

Real-Time Chat
==============

You can join the `Twisted Gitter channel <https://gitter.im/twisted/twisted>`_ (or simply click the "Open Chat" button at the bottom-right of this screen).
Gitter is based on `Matrix <https://matrix.org/>`_, which is itself built with Twisted !

Alternatively you can join the following IRC channel. There are gateways between the Gitter and IRC channels.

Server: ``irc.libera.chat`` (more about `the Libera IRC network <https://libera.chat>`_)

- `#twisted <irc://irc.libera.chat/twisted>`_  - support for Twisted and its ecosystem

Blogs
=====

Read `Planet Twisted <https://planet.twistedmatrix.com/>`_.
