<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>
      Using the Twisted Web Client
    </title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <h1>
      Using the Twisted Web Client
    </h1>

    <h2>
      Overview
    </h2>

    <p>
      This document describes how to use the HTTP client included in Twisted
      Web.  After reading it, you should be able to make HTTP and HTTPS
      requests using Twisted Web.  You will be able to specify the request
      method, headers, and body and you will be able to retrieve the response
      code, headers, and body.
    </p>

    <h3>
      Prerequisites
    </h3>

    <p>

      This document assumes that you are familiar with <a
      href="../../core/howto/defer.xhtml">Deferreds and Failures</a>, and <a
      href="../../core/howto/producers.xhtml">producers and consumers</a>.
      It also assumes you are familiar with the basic concepts of HTTP, such
      as requests and responses, methods, headers, and message bodies.  The
      HTTPS section of this document also assumes you are somewhat familiar with
      SSL and have read about <a href="../../core/howto/ssl.xhtml">using SSL in
      Twisted</a>.
    </p>

    <h2>
      The Agent
    </h2>

    <h3>Issuing Requests</h3>

    <p>
      The <code class="API">twisted.web.client.Agent</code> class is the entry
      point into the client API.  Requests are issued using the <code
      class="API" base="twisted.web.client.Agent">request</code> method, which
      takes as parameters a request method, a request URI, the request headers,
      and an object which can produce the request body (if there is to be one).
      The agent is responsible for connection setup.  Because of this, it
      requires a reactor as an argument to its initializer.  An example of
      creating an agent and issuing a request using it might look like this:
    </p>

    <a href="listings/client/request.py" class="py-listing">
      Issue a request with an Agent
    </a>

    <p>
      As may be obvious, this issues a new <em>GET</em> request for <em>/</em>
      to the web server on <code>example.com</code>.  <code>Agent</code> is
      responsible for resolving the hostname into an IP address and connecting
      to it on port 80 (for <em>HTTP</em> URIs), port 443 (for <em>HTTPS</em>
      URIs), or on the port number specified in the URI itself.  It is also
      responsible for cleaning up the connection afterwards.  This code sends
      a request which includes one custom header, <em>User-Agent</em>.  The
      last argument passed to <code>Agent.request</code> is <code>None</code>,
      though, so the request has no body.
    </p>

    <p>
      Sending a request which does include a body requires passing an object
      providing <code class="API">twisted.web.iweb.IBodyProducer</code>
      to <code>Agent.request</code>.  This interface extends the more general
      <code class="API" base="twisted.internet.interfaces">IPushProducer</code>
      by adding a new <code>length</code> attribute and adding several
      constraints to the way the producer and consumer interact.
    </p>

    <ul>
      <li>
        The length attribute must be a non-negative integer or the constant
        <code>twisted.web.iweb.UNKNOWN_LENGTH</code>.  If the length is known,
        it will be used to specify the value for the
        <em>Content-Length</em> header in the request.  If the length is
        unknown the attribute should be set to <code>UNKNOWN_LENGTH</code>.
        Since more servers support <em>Content-Length</em>, if a length can be
        provided it should be.
      </li>

      <li>
        An additional method is required on <code>IBodyProducer</code>
        implementations: <code>startProducing</code>.  This method is used to
        associate a consumer with the producer.  It should return a
        <code>Deferred</code> which fires when all data has been produced.
      </li>

      <li>
        <code>IBodyProducer</code> implementations should never call the
        consumer's <code>unregisterProducer</code> method.  Instead, when it
        has produced all of the data it is going to produce, it should only
        fire the <code>Deferred</code> returned by <code>startProducing</code>.
      </li>
    </ul>

    <p>
      For additional details about the requirements of <code class="API"
      base="twisted.web.iweb">IBodyProducer</code> implementations, see
      the API documentation.
    </p>

    <p>
      Here's a simple <code>IBodyProducer</code> implementation which
      writes an in-memory string to the consumer:
    </p>

    <a href="listings/client/stringprod.py" class="py-listing">
      A string-based body producer.
    </a>

    <p>
      This producer can be used to issue a request with a body:
    </p>

    <a href="listings/client/sendbody.py" class="py-listing">
      Issue a request with a body.
    </a>

    <h3>
      Receiving Responses
    </h3>

    <p>
      So far, the examples have demonstrated how to issue a request.  However,
      they have ignored the response, except for showing that it is a
      <code>Deferred</code> which seems to fire when the response has been
      received.  Next we'll cover what that response is and how to interpret
      it.
    </p>

    <p>
      <code>Agent.request</code>, as with most <code>Deferred</code>-returning
      APIs, can return a <code>Deferred</code> which fires with a
      <code>Failure</code>.  If the request fails somehow, this will be
      reflected with a failure.  This may be due to a problem looking up the
      host IP address, or it may be because the HTTP server is not accepting
      connections, or it may be because of a problem parsing the response, or
      any other problem which arises which prevents the response from being
      received.  It does <em>not</em> include responses with an error status.
    </p>

    <p>
      If the request succeeds, though, the <code>Deferred</code> will fire with
      a <code class="API" base="twisted.web.client">Response</code>.  This
      happens as soon as all the response headers have been received.  It
      happens before any of the response body, if there is one, is processed.
      The <code>Response</code> object has several attributes giving the
      response information: its code, version, phrase, and headers, as well as
      the length of the body to expect.  The <code>Response</code> object also
      has a method which makes the response body available: <code class="API"
      base="twisted.web.client.Response">deliverBody</code>.  Using the
      attributes of the response object and this method, here's an example which
      displays part of the response to a request:
    </p>

    <a href="listings/client/response.py" class="py-listing">
      Inspect the response.
    </a>

    <p>
      The <code>BeginningPrinter</code> protocol in this example is passed to
      <code>Response.deliverBody</code> and the response body is then delivered
      to its <code>dataReceived</code> method as it arrives.  When the body has
      been completely delivered, the protocol's <code>connectionLost</code>
      method is called.  It is important to inspect the <code>Failure</code>
      passed to <code>connectionLost</code>.  If the response body has been
      completely received, the failure will wrap a <code
      class="API">twisted.web.client.ResponseDone</code> exception.  This
      indicates that it is <em>known</em> that all data has been received.  It
      is also possible for the failure to wrap a <code
      class="API">twisted.web.http.PotentialDataLoss</code> exception: this
      indicates that the server framed the response such that there is no way
      to know when the entire response body has been received.  Only
      HTTP/1.0 servers should behave this way.  Finally, it is possible for
      the exception to be of another type, indicating guaranteed data loss for
      some reason (a lost connection, a memory error, etc).
    </p>

    <p>
      Just as protocols associated with a TCP connection are given a transport,
      so will be a protocol passed to <code>deliverBody</code>.  Since it makes
      no sense to write more data to the connection at this stage of the
      request, though, the transport <em>only</em> provides <code class="API"
      base="twisted.internet.interfaces">IPushProducer</code>.  This allows the
      protocol to control the flow of the response data: a call to the
      transport's <code>pauseProducing</code> method will pause delivery; a
      later call to <code>resumeProducing</code> will resume it.  If it is
      decided that the rest of the response body is not desired,
      <code>stopProducing</code> can be used to stop delivery permanently;
      after this, the protocol's <code>connectionLost</code> method will be
      called.
    </p>

    <p>
      An important thing to keep in mind is that the body will only be read
      from the connection after <code>Response.deliverBody</code> is called.
      This also means that the connection will remain open until this is done
      (and the body read).  So, in general, any response with a body
      <em>must</em> have that body read using <code>deliverBody</code>.  If the
      application is not interested in the body, it should issue a
      <em>HEAD</em> request or use a protocol which immediately calls
      <code>stopProducing</code> on its transport.
    </p>

    <h3>HTTP over SSL</h3>

    <p>
      Everything you've read so far applies whether the scheme of the request
      URI is <em>HTTP</em> or <em>HTTPS</em>.  However, to control the SSL
      negotiation performed when an <em>HTTPS</em> URI is requested, there's
      one extra object to pay attention to: the SSL context factory.
    </p>

    <p>
      <code>Agent</code>'s constructor takes an optional second argument, a
      context factory.  This is an object like the context factory described
      in <a href="../../core/howto/ssl.xhtml">Using SSL in Twisted</a> but has
      one small difference.  The <code>getContext</code> method of this factory
      accepts the address from the URL being requested.  This allows it to
      return a context object which verifies that the server's certificate
      matches the URL being requested.
    </p>

    <p>
      Here's an example which shows how to use <code>Agent</code> to request
      an <em>HTTPS</em> URL with no certificate verification.
    </p>

    <pre class="python">
from twisted.python.log import err
from twisted.web.client import Agent
from twisted.internet import reactor
from twisted.internet.ssl import ClientContextFactory

class WebClientContextFactory(ClientContextFactory):
    def getContext(self, hostname, port):
        return ClientContextFactory.getContext(self)

def display(response):
    print "Received response"
    print response

def main():
    contextFactory = WebClientContextFactory()
    agent = Agent(reactor, contextFactory)
    d = agent.request("GET", "https://example.com/")
    d.addCallbacks(display, err)
    d.addCallback(lambda ignored: reactor.stop())
    reactor.run()

if __name__ == "__main__":
    main()
    </pre>

    <p>
      The important point to notice here is that <code>getContext</code> now
      accepts two arguments, a hostname and a port number.  These two arguments,
      a <code>str</code> and an <code>int</code>, give the address to which a
      connection is being established to request an HTTPS URL.  Because an agent
      might make multiple requests over a single connection,
      <code>getContext</code> may not be called once for each request.  A second
      or later request for a URL with the same hostname as a previous request
      may re-use an existing connection, and therefore will re-use the
      previously returned context object.
    </p>

    <p>
      To configure SSL options or enable certificate verification or hostname
      checking, provide a context factory which creates suitably configured
      context objects.
    </p>

    <h2>
      Conclusion
    </h2>

    <p>
      You should now understand the basics of the Twisted Web HTTP client.  In
      particular, you should understand:
    </p>

    <ul>
      <li>
        How to issue requests with arbitrary methods, headers, and bodies.
      </li>
      <li>
        How to access the response version, code, phrase, headers, and body.
      </li>
      <li>
        How to control the streaming of the response body.
      </li>
    </ul>
  </body>
</html>
